# HR-Retention-Detection
The code base provided generates fake data of rentetion rates over a 12 month period for every department in an organization. 
Once the list is generated, we create a simple anomaly score, based on the mean and std deviation of the retention rate for each depatment. This score is calculated as follows: (current month value - mean) / std. If the anomaly score is less than a cerntain threshold, meaning its detecting a strong and signficant megative trend in the retention rate for that department and month, the code will flag that month as anomalous and will provide the curent retention rate along with the mean and stand deviation metrics for comparison. As this data set is fake data, the stand deviation tends to be high for this data set and does not necessarily reflect real organizational trends, and therefore a higher threshold is usually more sound and should be re-evaluated on real data. In this case, we set the threshold low to account for extreme cases. Please note that this is a simple detection method. More advanced techiques can be evaluated in order to account for additional variables that can contribute to the retention rate. 

The code also provides a regression model that provides predicted retention rates for a future month based on the previous months data. It would be good to validate this against the actual retention rate to fine tune the model and ensure its working as expected. This can be used to be more proactive determining expected retention rates and can be used as an additional method to flag if the rention rate is significantly lower than what was expected. 


Also included in the code are steps someone could take to inspect the data using visualizations and pandas dataframes. Its recommended to always inspect your data before writing your models to ensure data completeness and understanding. 
